# ChloroBot: The AI Botanist
ChloroBot is a FastAPI-based web application that allows users to upload images and ask questions about the detected objects in the image. It utilizes the YOLOv8 model for object detection and GPT-4 Vision for generating contextual responses based on the detected objects.

## Features

- Upload images to detect objects using YOLOv8.
- Ask questions about the detected objects and receive answers generated by GPT-4 Vision.
- User-friendly interface for seamless interaction.

## Technologies Used

- **FastAPI**: For building the web application.
- **Uvicorn**: ASGI server for running the FastAPI application.
- **YOLOv8**: For real-time object detection.
- **OpenAI GPT-4 Vision**: For generating responses based on detected objects.
- **Pydantic**: For data validation.
- **Python**: The programming language used for development.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/HunterX461/Chlorobot.git
   cd Chlorobot

2.Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended):

python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

3.Install the required dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt
Usage

**Run the Application:**

Start the FastAPI application using Uvicorn:

uvicorn main:app --reload

## Access the Web Interface:

Open your web browser and go to http://127.0.0.1:8000 to access the application.

## Upload an Image:

Use the upload section to select and upload an image. The application will detect objects in the image.

## Ask a Question:

After the objects are detected, enter your question in the provided input field and click "Ask". The application will generate a response based on the detected objects.

**Example :**

Upload an image of a plant and ask, "What type of plant is this?" The application will detect the plant and provide a response based on the detected objects.

**Contributing :**

Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions or improvements, feel free to create a pull request or open an issue.

## Acknowledgments
YOLOv8 for object detection.

OpenAI for the GPT-4 Vision model.

Plant Village Dataset:
@article{Mohanty_Hughes_Salathé_2016,
title={Using deep learning for image-based plant disease detection},
volume={7},
DOI={10.3389/fpls.2016.01419},
journal={Frontiers in Plant Science},
author={Mohanty, Sharada P. and Hughes, David P. and Salathé, Marcel},
year={2016},
month={Sep}} 
